The Project Gutenberg eBook of When Oscar Went Wild, by W. C. Tuttle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: When Oscar Went Wild

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release Date: July 30, 2021 [eBook #65961]

Language: English

Produced by: Roger Frank and Sue Clark

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WHEN OSCAR WENT WILD ***





WHEN OSCAR WENT WILD

by W. C. Tuttle

Author of “Derelicts of the Hills,” “Magpie’s Nightbear.”


Ren Merton and Sig Watson had spent the night in Piperock and of a
consequence were in no shape to appreciate the beauties of the dewy
morn, as their horses picked their way up the trail to the top of
Overwhich ridge.

“Them Piperock fellers play poker like I sing,” stated Sig, as they
pulled up their mounts for a breathing spell. “They gits their words
and music so mixed that nobody knows what they’re tryin’ to do.
They’re uh success, though.”

Ren removed his sombrero with an exaggerated flourish and, lifting
himself in his stirrups, broke forth in a shrill falsetto:

“Nobode-e-e-e knows how dry I am.”

“Shut up!”

“Mama mine, he won’t let me sing,” wailed Ren. “I lost jist as much
as he did and m’ head aches jist as hard and he won’t let m’ sing.
What do yuh know about that!”

“Jist don’t sing, that’s all,” replied Sig. “You can say all th’
funny things yuh wants to to yoreself, but I’m right here to remark
that singin’—yore kind uh singin’—ain’t in de-mand a-tall.
_Sabe?_”

“Always misunderstood,” mumbled Ren. “Th’ human race ain’t never
understood me. Mother misunderstood me; father follered suit, and
now you—Siggie, my old pal—you turns on me.”

“Misunderstood!” Sig turned in his saddle and gazed reflectively at
his partner. “Ren Merton, if you was ever entered fer th’ human race
you shore was scratched. Yore nose ain’t right—too long. Yuh got uh
bad case uh squints in both uh yore eyes, and yore mouth, which was
cut too wide in th’ first place, ain’t shrunk none a-tall.
Shoulders? Say, I sometimes wonder how comes it that yore collar
don’t slip down and trip yuh. Also, yore right foot is where yore
left ought to be.”

“Pickled prairie-dogs, that’s right!” agreed Ren. “I reckon I shore
must a been muddled this mawnin’ when I puts on m’ boots.”

“And also yore hair——”

“You stops at hair!” exploded Ren. “Mebby I’ve got red hair and
mebby she runs uh little to th’ rusty shade, but I’ll be danged if
any feller with fat eyebrows, buffalo-horn mustache and bow legs can
taunt me with th’ fact. Take uh look in th’ glass and you’ll see
that you ain’t no one-to-ten shot in this race yoreself, Sig.”

Sig grunted and turned back. The horses seemed to start by mutual
consent and plodded off down the hogback.

“I’ve knowed uh lot uh people,” remarked Sig, “who thought they had
red hair, but——”

He pulled up his horse.

“Wasn’t that a voice, Ren?”

“I reckon not—not uh human one anyway. Go on and finish yore
remarks about hair.”

“I tell yuh I heard somebody yell!” declared Sig. “It was jist over
that ridge, and I’m goin’ to see who it was.”

He spurred his horse into a gallop and Ren followed at his heels.
They crossed the ridge and swung down into an open timbered swale,
interspersed with clumps of willows and jack-pines.

There they saw her. She was tied to a tree and seemed to be exerting
every muscle to get loose. She was dressed in a faded calico dress
and her dark-brown hair tumbled in confusion about her half-bare
shoulders.

The sight of her was a shock to the punchers and they threw their
broncos back on their haunches at the sight. The girl didn’t see
them, and after the first gasp of surprise they sat there and stared
at her.

Suddenly she shrank back against the tree and screamed—

“That’s not Oscar!”

Like a flash of yellow light a scared cougar had bounded out of the
willow thicket near her and crouched low.

Ren acted first. While he hadn’t the uncanny skill on the draw
attributed to the Western gunman, he was deadly when he did “get his
ol’ smoke-wagon unhitched.” The cougar had barely touched his belly
to the ground when Ren’s .45 started to spout death and destruction.

Two of the heavy slugs tore through its neck, and the cougar tied
itself in a snarling, spitting knot and rolled over dead. When the
last shot was fired Ren’s horse was nearly over the body of the
cougar and Ren was shoving fresh shells into the gun.

The girl looked at Ren in a dazed sort of a way for a moment and
then in a tired little voice remarked—

“That wasn’t Oscar.”

“No, ma’am,” agreed Ren foolishly. “That shore wasn’t Oscar.”

“What happened?” asked a deep bass voice, and Ren turned in his
saddle; behind him stood a florid-faced person in a green corduroy
suit and panama, and behind him a narrow-shouldered, sharp-faced man
in knickerbockers.

“What happened, I asked?” repeated the florid one.

“It wasn’t Oscar,” stated the girl for the third time.

“Well, what was it, then?” queried the sharp-faced man.

“I kept grinding until this cowboy person butted in and spoiled it.”

“Did you quit then?” roared the florid one. “By Jupiter! You lost a
fine chance for some real stuff. But what happened to Oscar, and
where in the world did this other lion come from?”

“Did it—I say—where did it?”

Another person had joined the crowd. He was hatless and garbed in
the costume of the early settler, fringed and beaded buckskin from
his toes to his chin, and his face was ashen. He walked up with an
uncertain gait and his breathing gave evidence of recent exertion.

“What happened to you, Jack?” asked the florid one.

“Why, I—uh—I——”

“You met it too, did you?” grinned the thin-faced one, and the
fringed one gulped an assent.

“I was—er—just coming through that clump of bushes and I met it.
You see I—er—thought perhaps that if I ran I could coax it away
from the rest of you.”

“Haw, haw, haw!” roared Sig. “You shore ought to git uh hero medal.
Didn’t yuh know that no self-respectin’ cougar would chase uh git-up
like that?”

Just then two more men came running down the hill and, seeing the
crowd, one of them stopped and cupped his hands.

“Mister Norton!” he yelled. “Oscar slipped his collar and got away!”

“Just my luck!” exclaimed Norton, the florid one. “Here I bring this
bunch way up here to finish that film, and that blamed cat gets away
and spoils it all!”

“Oscar is uh cougar, I takes it,” opined Ren, rolling a cigarette
and looking admiringly at the girl. “I reckon somebody might as well
let th’ lady loose. Cougars bein’ thick, I don’t think it’s safe to
tie ladies to trees anyway.”

One of the men cut the ropes which bound her, and the thin-faced man
recovered his camera from the willow thicket.

“Miss, I reckon you can have that cougar skin if yuh wants it,”
remarked Sig. “We ain’t got no use fer it, and if yuh wants it I’ll
have Ren skin it fer yuh.”

“I am Miss Reynolds,” she replied with a smile. “And I’d love to
shake hands with both of you. You gentlemen saved my life, and I
haven’t words to thank you with.”

“Don’t mention it, Miss Reynolds,” replied Sig. “Little thing like
that—why——”

“Slack up yore rope!” rasped Ren. “You never saved anything—not
even yore salary, and now yuh tells her that it’s uh little thing to
save her life.” He leaned over an’ held out his hand. “Miss
Reynolds, I’m uh heap glad to meet yuh. My name’s Ren Merton, and if
there’s anything I can do fer yuh—yuh can have that catskin to
remember me by.”

She gave him a sweet smile.

“I’d love to have it, Mr. Merton. I’ll have one of the men skin it,
and every time I put my foot on that rug I’ll remember you. I’ve had
my life saved many times on the films, but this being the first time
in real life, I just don’t know what to say.”

“I jist hope yuh won’t forget it, anyway,” laughed Ren.

“Do you think you’ll forget it?” she asked.

“Lady,” interrupted Sig, “that hombre can forget anything. I’m th’
brains of our outfit, and if yuh wants an intelligent favor done,
jist ask me. _Sabe?_”

“I don’t know whether you gentlemen are in earnest or not. Do you
mean everything you say to each other?”

“I do,” replied Sig, with a bow, “but Mr. Merton here never meant
anything he ever said. He’s notorious fer jist talkin’. As I orates
before, Miss Reynolds, if there is anything I can do fer yuh,
why——”

“I do wish we could get Oscar,” she replied reflectively. “There
goes poor old Nortie up the hill with a broken heart, and I know
that Jack Markham is awfully put out about it too. You see we’ve
simply got to have a cougar or we can’t finish the picture. I wonder
if you could catch Oscar? He’s as tame as a kitten and has never
been wild. The company raised him—got him from a zoo when he was a
little yellow kitten. I know that Mr. Norton would be willing to pay
you well if you would catch him.”

“Miss Reynolds, we ain’t mercenary thataway,” replied Sig. “I ain’t
wastin’ no love on that Norton person, and I don’t rassel no cougar
fer his money, but if you really wants that cat, I’m promisin’ it to
yuh.”

“That’s awfully kind of you,” she cooed. “If you could catch him and
bring him back here tomorrow, I could just love you both. Then we
could finish that picture. Really, he is as tame as a kitten.”

“Consider him caught,” boasted Sig. “Me and Ren will bring him to
yore house tomorrow mawnin’. Uh course I could git him alone, but
bein’ as Ren is with me I’ll let him help.”

“Meanin’,” drawled Ren, “that I ropes that cat and ties him up fer
shipment, and Sig writes th’ address.”

Miss Reynolds insisted on shaking hands with both of them again, and
her smile left them both unable to roll a cigarette.

“We’re living in those cabins up there in the pines,” she explained,
“and probably will be there for a few days. You can bring him right
up there.”

“Yes’m,” they both replied, and watched her skip up the hill in the
wake of the rest of the party.

About half-way to the top she stopped and threw them a kiss, and
then danced out of sight in the jack-pines.

Ren rolled a fresh smoke and studied Sig’s rapt expression from
under his hat brim. Suddenly he broke into song——

“And that’s what made th’ wildcat wild.”

“Meanin’ which?” demanded Sig.

“Oscar,” chuckled Ren. “Don’t yuh see, Sig? Them velvet optics made
Oscar——”

“Listen,” snapped Sig. “Confine yore humor to somethin’ else. I
don’t sit here inactive and hear yuh slander them eyes none
whatever. _Sabe_? I’m backin’ th’ lady’s play—me.”

“Me and you both,” replied Ren seriously. “But did yuh ever stop to
consider that you gits so danged conceited when uh female person
speaks to yuh that yuh promises to do anything? Cougars ain’t
woodchucks nor snowshoe rabbits, and I’m thinkin’ aloud that you’ve
gone plumb out of yore class this time.”

“We’ll git him,” snapped Sig. “One of th’ fellers told me that th’
last they saw of him he was lopin’ up th’ trail, and that means he’s
liable to hive up in our cabin. Bein’ as he’s uh house-bred animule,
it stands to reason that he’s goin’ to hunt human company soon’s he
gits hungry or gits scared of th’ dark. _Sabe?_”

Ren nodded and they turned their horses and rode on up the trail to
their cabin about two miles away. They unsaddled their horses at the
corral and then laid down on their bunks for a much-needed rest.

It was almost dark when Ren awoke and looked around the cabin. Sig
was gone. Ren got up and was lazily pulling on his boots when Sig
came in with a hammer in his hand and a smile on his face.

“Th’ sleek hare sleeps while th’ sly fox schemes,” he quoted
dramatically. “I reckon I’ve laid uh trap fer Oscar.”

He hung up the hammer and went out again. A few moments later he was
back of the cabin fumbling with the one window. “Help me take this
thing out, Ren!” he yelled.

Ren removed the nails from the inside and Sig removed the window and
threw in the end of his lariat rope.

“What’s th’ idea?” asked Ren.

Sig grinned and coiled up the rope.

“Cougar trap. I got this rope fixed so’s that when th’ cougar gits
inside of th’ shed, all we got to do is to pull on th’ rope and th’
door shuts. There’s uh quarter uh venison in th’ shed and I’m
bettin’ that Oscar falls fer it, Ren. What do yuh think about it?”

“Sig, yore uh wonder! I’m bettin’ that you’ve already deduced how to
tie him up after we gits him inside. I shore honors and respects
yuh, old timer, and as uh special mark of respect I allows yuh to
prepare our evenin’ meal. I’m so hungry I could eat Oscar, I
reckon.”

Three hours later they sat humped up on their bunk and watched the
door of the shed, a splotch of black in the half moonlight, and
prayed that the cougar would come before they lost too much sleep.

“Don’t light that cigarette here,” cautioned Ren. “Go back near th’
door. If that cat saw th’ light he’d never show up.”

Sig tiptoed to the front of the cabin and sat down on a box. Ren sat
by the window for a few minutes and then joined Sig.

“Give me yore papers and I’ll roll one, too. I reckon it’s uh little
too early fer Oscar to show up yet.”

They smoked in silence for a while and then sneaked back to the
window. Sig took one long look at the door and then threw himself
backward and heaved on the rope. The door shut with a bang and an
unearthly yelp split the stillness of the night.

“Got him!” whooped Sig. “I seen his eyes and slammed that old door
right in his face! Whoopee!”

“Good work!” exclaimed Ren. “I’ll bet Oscar is plumb scared to death
right now.”

“Not any he ain’t. Oscar’s uh tame cougar and, while he may display
uh little peevishness at first, he’ll be plumb satisfied with that
hunk uh meat. Let’s go out and see what he’s doin’.”

They walked around the shed but were unable to size up their catch,
as the shed had no windows. They could hear a sniffling at the
cracks of the door and suddenly a heavy body was flung against it,
but the heavy bar on the outside held it fast.

“Want to go inside and look him over?” queried Ren.

“Not in his present state uh mind, I don’t. That cat is shore some
irritated and when they gits fussed thataway they’re plumb informal.
How do yuh reckon we’re goin’ to acquire his carcass fer shipment?”

“Might git some uh that movie outfit to come up and git him,”
suggested Ren, but Sig promptly vetoed it.

“And have that beautiful lady think that me and you were afraid of
her pet, eh?”

“I’d rather be uh live coward than uh dead hero,” stated Ren. “There
ain’t no honor in th’ grave fer me. I got an idea though. Mebby
she’s good and mebby again she ain’t.”

“Shoot.”

“I’ll unfasten th’ door and let her open jist a little ways. _Sabe?_
Th’ cat will try to come out and I’ll slam th’ door shut when he’s
half-ways out an’ all you has to do is to put two ropes on him. You
take one and I’ll take th’ other and Mr. Oscar is plumb helpless.”

“Uh ha,” agreed Sig. “That’s uh _hy-iu_ scheme—if you holds him.”

“Aw ——, Sig, he’s tame! I’ll hold him. All you got to do is to
slip th’ two ropes on him and give me one. _Sabe?_”

Sig went to the corral and brought back two ropes. He held the
nooses handy while Ren removed the bar. He opened the door an inch
at a time and braced himself for the rush.

“Come on out, Oscar,” pleaded Sig. “Be uh nice li’l cat and come
on——”

Oscar came, not sneakingly nor slowly but a rasping, spitting,
clawing chunk of deviltry, and Ren shut the door just in time. It
caught Oscar at the flank and for a few seconds the air was full of
cougar cuss words.

Sig advanced cautiously and managed to get one rope over its head
and pulled the noose tight. He handed that rope to Ren, who
immediately proceeded to forget that he was there to keep the door
tight. He grabbed the rope with both hands, braced himself for the
rush and unthinkingly stepped away from the door.

There was a heave and a flash and the cougar sailed over Sig’s head
and out to the end of that rope. Ren was partly braced for the shock
but didn’t figure on the velocity of the animal, and when the shock
came he went straight up in the air and off across the clearing.

Luckily he lit running and hung on to the rope, and he and the
cougar went down the hill, over stumps and through the thickets like
a spitting, yelling, yellow comet with a human tail.

They had traveled thus for about two hundred yards when the cougar
went on one side of a tree and Ren on the other. They almost met on
the big swing. The cat flipped upside down over a log while Ren
almost completed the circle, only stopping when he threw his arms
around a tree and hung on. He still held the rope and had presence
of mind enough left to proceed to tie that cat up good and tight.
The cougar had choked itself nearly to death trying to come up under
the log and Ren had little trouble in tying its hind legs so it was
helpless.

He rolled a smoke and hobbled back to the cabin. He wondered in a
detached sort of way what had become of Sig and why he didn’t help
him hold it, but as he walked around the cabin he heard Sig’s voice
imploring him to:

“Hurry up, fer Gawd’s sake!”

“What’s th’ matter?” asked Ren.

“Come over here you danged fool!” wailed Sig. “Can’t yuh see I can’t
hold this door much longer!”

“Hold th—what—why, I’ll be danged! Where did yuh git it, Sig?”

“Grab hold uh this door! How do I know where I got it? When you and
Oscar paraded off down th’ hill I sees uh pair uh eyes shinin’ in
there and I jist slams th’ door in time to catch his neck. Gosh,
ain’t he a sassy-lookin’ animule, Ren? Where’s Oscar?”

“Hog-tied to uh log,” mumbled Ren. “At least I got uh cougar tied to
th’ log—I didn’t ask his name. I wonder how two of ’em got in at
oncet, and which is Oscar?”

“This ain’t Oscar,” stated Sig with conviction. “No house variety of
cougar would have uh face and uh disposition like this one, Ren.”

“Hang onto th’ door, Sig, while I takes uh board off th’ wall and
attacks him from behind. You jist keep on squeezin’ him and I’ll tie
him up.”

Ren got the hammer and removed a board. The cougar objected at the
top of its voice, but in a few minutes Ren had it trussed up and
tied off to a rafter.

They went into the cabin, boiled a pot of coffee and had a smoke.

“Well, we don’t know which is Oscar, but I reckon Miss Reynolds can
pick him out,” remarked Ren.

“Said she’d love me if I got him,” grinned Sid, “and I’ve got him.”

“Yore hearin’ is on uh par with yore brains,” drawled Ren. “She said
‘us,’ and what’s more, Siggie, you ain’t got him—I’ve got him.
_Sabe?_ I risked my whole danged life to git her that cougar. You
can put yore location notice on that one in th’ shed, but not on
Oscar. He’s mine, located, filed and patented.”

“Is that so!” exploded Sig. “I’m here to orate that it was my scheme
which caught it! All you did was to hang on to th’ rope and, not
bein’ overly strong nor active, you permits that li’l cat to haul
yuh around, regardless. And now yuh opines that yuh owns Oscar. Not
any yuh don’t!

“I don’t care if yuh did tear yore pants,” he continued. “If yuh
can’t take care of yoreself don’t blame me. I’ve shore treated yuh
white, Ren Merton, and now yuh turns and bites th’ hand which feeds
yuh!”

“Bites yore hand!” snorted Ren, shaking his forefinger under Sig’s
nose. “Listen: any time I starts bitin’ you won’t confine yore
diagnosis to hands, old timer. I orates openly that as soon as
daylight comes I’m goin’ down and make uh crate and prepare Oscar
fer shipment. _Sabe?_ I ain’t concernin’ myself about that cat in
th’ shed and hereby waives all rights to him, but I duly informs all
present company that I’m uh close corporation when it comes to li’l’
Oscar. Let’s go to bed.”

“Not with you!” snarled Sig. “I’ll take uh blanket and go out in th’
woods or sleep in th’ shed with th’ cougar. I hereby refuses to
share yore bed and I does it without malice in m’ heart. You grieves
me deeply, Mr. Merton, and I’m sore at heart and meek-feelin’.”

“Hop to it!” grunted Ren, as he rolled into the bunk and stretched
wearily. “Don’t go near Oscar ’cause I reckon he’s fond uh meek
things.”

Sig took a blanket and went out, closing the door softly. As the
door closed, Ren slid out of his bunk and peered out of the window.
He chuckled as he saw Sig wander off into the trees, and he sat up
and rolled a smoke and seemed to ponder deeply. Suddenly he slapped
his leg and pinched out the light of his cigarette.

“By golly!” he chuckled, “won’t Sig go high, wide and handsome?”

The first tinge of morning showed in the east when Ren slipped out
of the cabin and approached the shed. Ten minutes later a tawny
figure glided out of the open shed and bounded off into the
underbrush. Five minutes later an apparition in rags stumbled out of
the shed and leaned uncertainly against the wall.

“Mama mine!” it mumbled. “I must be uh sight. Them danged things
won’t go away when yuh gives ’em uh chance. I shore am scratched
some artistic.”

He staggered into the cabin and painfully removed his torn clothing.
He tore up some of the shirt for bandages, but there was too much
space to cover and he was awfully tired. He sat on the bunk as naked
as the day he was born and fumbled for a cigarette in the pockets he
didn’t have on.

“Well, I’ll be teetotally ——!” exclaimed Sig’s voice from the
doorway but Ren never looked up. “Come on and help me, Sig. I reckon
I’m all cut to shoestrings.”

“You ain’t alone, Ren.”

Ren lifted his head and looked at Sig.

“Pickled prairie-dogs!” he groaned. “What happened to you? Did
you—huh—turn Oscar loose?”

“After seven years uh hard fightin’ and hardships I manages to break
his holt,” declared Sig dismally. “I’m jist uh walkin’ hunk uh
Hamburger steak, Ren, and I feels that when I removes my clothes
I’ll be no more. That cat jist simply prospected every piece uh meat
on my frame. In my war-sack under th’ bunk there’s uh roll uh
stickin’ plaster. You wrap me up and I’ll do th’ same fer you, Ren.
I’ve done played my last joke—absolutely. I suppose th’ shed is
empty?”

“Uh ha,” nodded Ren. “I’m apologizin’, Sig.”

“Aw, Ren, I reckon misery likes company.”

“Well,” drawled Ren, “she’s got it.”

Half an hour later, with adhesive plaster covering most of their
bodies they laid down on the bunk and rolled more cigarettes.

“I wonder which one was Oscar?” mused Sig aloud, but Ren was deep in
thought and made no answer.

Finally Ren drew a deep breath and turned to Sig.

“Them movie people take big chances, don’t they? Jist think about uh
girl playin’ with Oscar. Tame? Say, I shore hope I never meets uh
wild cougar, Sig. That animule shore put his trade-mark on me.”

Just then there came a clatter of horse’s hoofs outside and Sig
limped over to the closed door.

“Hello!” yelled a voice, which they both recognized as that of
Norton, the movie director.

“Hello, yoreself!” retorted Sig. “We’re takin’ our mornin’ bath and
can’t come out.”

“That’s all right,” laughed Norton. “I just came up here to deliver
a message to you from Miss Reynolds.”

“What was it?” asked Sig quickly.

“She said for you boys not to worry about Oscar because he came back
right after you left.”

“Must be sore about something,” reflected Norton as his horse picked
its way down the narrow trail. “Either they are sore or mighty
ungentlemanly, because they never even said ‘thank you.’”

                                 THE END
[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the July, 1916 issue of
Adventure magazine.]

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WHEN OSCAR WENT WILD ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
